V2.01  First full version.

V2.02  First release version.

V2.03  Patched to prevent MG initialisation problems.

V2.04  (Jeaggi only) network eof problems fixed.

V2.05  Lost channel on OPEN_NEW (file already exists) fixed.
       EX EW  changed so that owner is current job.

V2.06  EX EW changed for compiled programs:
       EX jobs owned by 0, EW jobs owned by current job and now wait!

V2.07  (Sandy only) 'bad line' character wrap problem in ED fixed.

V2.08  Empty line in ED problem (introduced in V2.07) fixed.
       Unset string parameter collapse in PRINT_USING fixed.

V2.09  PUTting randomly positioned bytes over the network should not
	 now shuffle the contents of a file.

V2.10  RENAME with only one name does not now leave file open.
       The file system prompts are now sent to #0 rather than channel 0.

V2.11  Initialisation error causing loss of replacement commands (e.g. OPEN)
	 using JM/AH ROMs and CST QDisc V1.17 and V1.18 fixed.

V2.12  Bad error message return from opening a file name that is too long
	 changed to return "bad name".
       "Bad parameter" from special job opening a file specified as a string
	 in an EX command fixed.
       "Not complete" from SPL fixed.
       Last line recall changed to reduce problems due to asynchronous
	 modification of keyboard queue.

V2.13  Error status returned from SAVE and LIST if drive full or bad or
	 changed medium during output.
       Network fixed to prevent serial I/O buffer damage when interleaving
	 serial I/O with window enquiries while reading from a file.

V2.30  (Marcel Kilgus)
       Created new TK2 release from latest SMSQ/E source code, which includes
	 all improvements made for SMSQ/E, like automatically adding the default
	 "_bas" extension when loadin SuperBasic programs plus all new commands:
	 EXF, EX_M, FET, FEW, FEX, FEX_M, HGET, HPUT, JOBID, LGET, LPUT, UPUT,
	 WGET and WPUT
       Reverse-engineered missing parts like MDV driver extension
       Removed network file server due to space constraints
       Removed ALARM/CLOCK commands due to space constraints
       Removed ALTKEY from ROM version, but kept ALT+ENTER for last line recall

V2.31  (Marcel Kilgus)
       Fixed CDEC$ that was broken in 2.30

V2.32  (Marcel Kilgus)
       Added network hardware access code to ROM so LRESPRed server can work
       Also an alternative ROM with full network stack and missing ED command

V2.33  (Per Witte)
       Added SUSJB procedure to suspend a job for a time or indefinitely
       Added FDEL as a function version of DELETE

V2.34  (Marcel Kilgus)
       Fixed a crash on LOAD/LRUN/MERGE
