

USING QXL.WIN CONTAINERS ON FAT32 FORMATTED DRIVES
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

As of version  3.32 of SMSQ/E, the  Qx0 can use not  only the usual IDE
drives  with Atari and QDOS partitions, but also QXL.WIN type container
files on FAT32 formatted  media. Whilst  the intention  is to  use this
with  SDHC cards in appropriate adapters for easy data exchange between
the Qx0 and the rest of the QL world, this doesnÄôt have to be the case
necessarily: I  have  successfully  used  a  standard  IDE  hard  drive
formatted with a FAT 32 partition containing a QXL.WIN file on it.

Please note that the Qx0 does  not  read  FAT32  media  directly,  just
QXL.WIN files on such a media.

Special attention must  be paid as  to how the  QXL.WIN container files
are stored on  the media.  IÄôll use  a SDHC  cards in  the appropriate
adapters as an example.

For the cards  to be  useful, they  must be  partitioned and  the first
primary partition must  be formatted  in FAT32  format (this  cannot be
done on the Qx0). The different container files the Qx0 needs to access
must be  put into  that partition,  which should  be possible  from any
machine  running an OS that can  read/write SDHC cards (Linux, Windows,
macOs): just copy the files to the card.

The Qx0 has at least two IDE slots, one master and one slave. The ideal
solution  would be that the ÄúoldÄù disk remain in the master slot, the
new  disk (or card  adapter) in the  slave position. That  way, any old
SMSQE could  boot from the old disk, load  v. 3.32 (or later) of SMSQ/E
and then use the new disk.  Be  advised,  however,  that  it  had  been
reported  to me that some  card adapters will only  work as masters. In
that case,  you would  need, either  to boot  from a  floppy, or  get a
second  IDE I/O card. Using container files  on the card As stated, the
QXL.WIN  container files must lie in the first primary partition on the
media which must be formatted with a FAT32 file system. Moreover, these
container  files must be located within  the first 16 directory entries
of this FAT32 formatted partition. 

SMSQ/E for the Qx0 expects that all container files (i.e. files for WIN
drives) lie in  contiguous sectors  on the  media. If  this is  not the
case, the file is said  to  be  ÄúfragmentedÄù.  Fragmented  files  are
deadly  here: SMSQ/E assumes that, once it has found the beginning of a
container  file, the  rest of  that container  file lies  in contiguous
sectors  on the  media/card, and  it will  cheerfully write  into those
contiguous sectors which it  deems still  belong to  that file.  If the
file is  fragmented, these contiguous sectors may  not belong to it but
to another file, which will thus be irretrievably corrupted. 

So,  special precautions must be taken  when writing the container (and
other) file(s) to  the media. The  best and recommended  way to achieve
this  is to make sure that, before writing the QXL.WIN files, the media
is  freshly formatted. Then, one after  the other, write each container
file to the  media immediately  after formatting  it. Once  the QXL.WIN
file is safely on the media, SMSQE will not cause file fragmentation in
the FAT32 system..

Note : practise has shown that in most cases it may not be necessary to
reformat the media. You could also  delete  every  single  file  on  it
before copying new files onto  it.  Under  no  circumstances,  however,
should  you only delete files selectively:  this may leave ÄúholesÄù in
the file allocation table  and  this  lead  to  fragmented  files  (see
below). However, the recommendation still is to format the card and not
just to delete all files from it.

When copying  several files to  the freshly formatted  media, make sure
that  the copy process of  each file is finished  before you start that
for the  next file. If not,  it may happen that  the two copy processes
write  concurrently to the media, which could mean that the sectors for
the two files  interleave. Depending  on the  operating system  you use
(linux, windows, mac  os) if  you drag  several files  to the  media at
once,  several concurrent copy  processes might be  started which might
lead  to file fragmentation. So, to avoid  this, just drag the files to
copy one after the other.

Never just  delete a single file  -be it a container  file or any other
file-   from the media,  but always format  it (or at  least delete ALL
files  from it), and then write the files  to it again: If you delete a
single file  from the card  and later write  another, bigger, container
file  to the card, it is possible that part of this container file will
lie in the sectors  previously occupied  by the  deleted file,  and the
rest  in  previously  unoccupied  sectors.  This  file  would  then  be
fragmented  and not lie in contiguous sectors on the card: a recipe for
a disaster.

If  a container file becomes fragmented, you WILL experience data loss,
and other files on the card might also be irrecoverably damaged! 

Do not drag and drop several files onto the card at once. Do not delete
files  from the card Äì  always format it. It  is very much recommended
that you read the section Avoiding fragmentation to make sure you treat
the card as you should.


Naming scheme
=-=-=-=-=-=-=

The  file name of a container file MUST be in "8.3" format, i.e. a name
of  1 to 8 characters, possibly followed by a decimal point and a three
letter   extension.  Missing   letters  are   filled  up   with  spaces
automatically by the  system. The name  and extension must  be in upper
case  and the extension, if present, must be separated from the name by
a period (".").

Please only use plain  ASCII characters  for the  name and  no accented
characters, i.e. the letters A-Z and numbers 0-9.

In all commands or configuration items where you must give or configure
a name, SMSQ/E tries to  help  you  as  much  as  possible.  Names  are
automatically  converted into  upper case  and correctly  formatted, so
that Äúqlwa.winÄù would automatically be converted to ÄúQLWA    .WINÄù.
However, a Äú_Äù is not converted to a Äú.Äù .


The new WIN_DRIVE command
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

To allow for QXL.WIN files to be used as container files, the WIN_DRIVE
command has been extended.

The previous scheme was : WIN_DRIVE n,t,u,p

where  
n is the drive number. 
t is the target number (from 0 -3). 
u is the unit number (unused). 
p is the partition number.

u and p may be omitted and will then default to 0.

If you do not use the  new  facility,  the  WIN_DRIVE  command  remains
unchanged. 

If you do use it, append the drive name at the end: 

WIN_DRIVE n,t,u,p,name$

In this case, the u and p parameters MUST be given, though they will be
ignored.

Example : 

     WIN_DRIVE 4,1,0,0,"QXL.WIN"

will set the file called QXL.WIN, to be found on the first partition of
the  FAT32 formatted drive in target 1 (i.e. the ÄúslaveÄù drive in IDE
slot  0), as WIN drive 4. Do not use  any values other then 0 for u and
p.

The quotes are not necessary.


W. Lenerz 
December 2017













          